Paragraph 1 Enzo Barrett

I    Body Paragraphs
    A.    Topic sentence  1st category - strongest point first  (this is different
          than AP)

    Technology played a very significant role in WWI, it changed the outcome of
almost every battle that happened in the war. You can see the compelling effect that
new technologies had on the war by looking at the first battles these technologies
were used in. With tanks being a relatively new technology they were quite a surprise
when first used in battle. That battle was the battle of Cambrai in 1917. This battle
"Demonstrated that tanks, used properly, might break the deadlock of trench
warfare" (Lowe). Britain used 381 tanks to significantly breach the front lines of
Germany. Cambrai became the model for the allies in 1918. Unlike Cambrai a tactic
that took place at sea was unrestricted warfare. Unrestricted warfare was a tactic
used by Germany that massively affected the war. The Germans hoped "Britain and
France would be starved into surrender before the Americans could make any vital
contribution" (Lowe). This tactic was one of the most successful tactics of WW1.
Germans specifically targeted all ships of enemy countries. Their tactic was only
stopped by the convoy tactic later in the war. Communications tactically were
different then the other technologies in the war. Despite increases in technology in
the war it proved very difficult dealing with communication technologies."Telephone
wires were generally cut within the first minutes of a battle. Wireless sets were
huge and unreliable, not to mention easily intercepted by the enemy." (Causes and
Effects of 20th Century Wars). Tanks and U-Boats were the tactics out of
these three examples that had the most results to the countries advantage. There was
almost no way for the outdated armies of men to combat these methods (except
eventually sub warfare). Tanks are a machine that can combat entire armies because of
their strong armor. U-Boats combated the "old warships" by being completely discrete.
To make it easier for themselves the U-Boats didn't even target warships so they were
completely undercover. Communications technology affected the war in the other way.
it was very unreliable and easy to intercept. It made battles much more difficult.
Despite the vast increases in the warfare technology and tactics they often backfired
on the countries that used these tactics. In all cases these solely determined the
results of almost every battle and the entire war. 


    B.    Evidence - State your facts
        1.
        2.
        3.
    C.    Analysis - Explain your thinking about the facts
    D.    Synthesis-  Organize/Summarize the facts and your opinion to prove your
          thesis
